---
layout: post
title: “Why color?”
description: “The importance of color”
comments: true
---

Color relies on our ability to see in visible objects differences in luminance, saturation, and hue. It can be used to decorate, beautify, evoke a certain symbolism, etc.
Tufte’s fundamental uses of color are labeling and measuring. Color as a label is employed to identify something. As a measure, color is mapped to a data distribution.
  
<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="d30e063c436e4788ae69f45ae12bfd20" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

## Marketing
Color is an essential element used as a sign to represent desirable product attributes. Color coding improves readership, contributes to product branding, and product identification. 
The Seoul International Color Expo found that, when deciding which product to purchase, 92.6 % of respondents report relying on visual factors, such as color. For comparison, only 5.6 % said touch was most important, while 0.9 % said hearing and smell. 84.7 % of the respondents reported that color is more important than all other factors combined (1). Hence, consumers buy into the image and color of a product.

## Memory 
The success of a color in branding may result from its effectiveness. In natural scenes, researchers found that color enhances visual memory (2). When participants were asked to recall specific elements of an image, they recalled up to 10 % more elements in colored images, as opposed to black & white ones (3).

## Language
Related work suggests that language has a strong influence on thinking and color perception.
The relationship between language and thought is coined into the theory of linguistic relativity (also referred to as Sapir-Whorf hypothesis) (4). Two different formulations exist: In 1953, Lenneberg proposed that the structure of language determines how we perceive the world, and in 1999, Trask postulated that language structure *influences* but does not determine the world view of its speaker (5). In a study, English and Russian participants were tasked to discriminate colors using blue stimuli that spanned the синий or siniy (darker blues)/голубой or goluboy (lighter blues). Researchers found that Russian speakers were better and faster than English speakers at discriminating colors (6). Their research demonstrated that the language system clearly interfered with a presumably exclusive visual task.

## Thoughts
Vision is not a camera, it is information processing (7). Not everyone has the same vision, hence not the same color vision. Color is art, and color is not always needed. Other channels can be employed such as size or shape.


1. Caivano, J.L. and del Pilar Buera, M. eds., 2012. Color in food: technological and psychophysical aspects. CRC Press.
2. Spence, I., Wong, P., Rusan, M. and Rastegar, N., 2006. How color enhances visual memory for natural scenes. Psychological Science, 17(1), pp.1-6.
3. Wichmann, F.A., Sharpe, L.T. and Gegenfurtner, K.R., 2002. The contributions of color to recognition memory for natural scenes. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 28(3), p.509.
4. Kay, P. and Kempton, W., 1984. What is the Sapir‐Whorf hypothesis?. American anthropologist, 86(1), pp.65-79.
5. Trask, R.L., 1999. Key concepts in language and linguistics. Psychology Press.
6. Winawer, J., Witthoft, N., Frank, M.C., Wu, L., Wade, A.R. and Boroditsky, L., 2007. Russian blues reveal effects of language on color discrimination. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 104(19), pp.7780-7785.
7. Stone, M. and MacKinlay J., 2009. The power of the Human visual system. Tableau Customer’s Conference. ([slides](http://www.stonesc.com/slides/Vision%20and%20visualization%20stone-mackinlay.pdf)).